chore: rework the quickstart page to use PWT [sc-13462] (#625)
checkly/checklyhq.com: site/content/docs/browser-checks/_index.md

  if (response.status() > 399) {
    throw new Error(`Failed with response code ${response.status()}`)
  }
})
 ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{< info >}}
Checkly currently supports only using **Chromium** with Playwright Test and Playwright library.
{{< /info >}}

## Breaking down a Browser check step-by-step

Let's look at a breakdown of a real-life scenario. The code below logs into Checkly, and waits for the dashboard to fully load.

{{< tabs "Breakdown example" >}}
{{< tab "JavaScript" >}}
```js
const { test } = require('@playwright/test') // 1

test('Login to Checkly', async ({ page }) => {
  await page.goto('https://app.checklyhq.com/login') // 2

  await page.fill('input[type="email"]', 'john@example.com') // 3
  await page.fill('input[type="password"]', 'mypassword')
  await page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Log In' }).click() // 4

  await page.getByTestId('home-dashboard-table').isVisible() // 5
})
 ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "TypeScript" >}}
```ts
import { test } from '@playwright/test' // 1

test('Login to Checkly', async ({ page }) => {
  await page.goto('https://app.checklyhq.com/login') // 2

  await page.fill('input[type="email"]', 'john@example.com') // 3

>   await page.fill('input[type="password"]', 'mypassword')

Reviewer: I think `type` should be preferred to `fill` since it emits multiple keyboard events.

test('Visit Checkly HQ page', async ({ page }) => {
  const response = await page.goto('https://checklyhq.com')

  // Test that the response did not fail
  if (response.status() > 399) {
    throw new Error(`Failed with response code ${response.status()}`)
  }
})
 ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "TypeScript" >}}
 ```ts
import { test } from '@playwright/test'

test('Visit Checkly HQ page', async ({ page }) => {
  const response = await page.goto('https://checklyhq.com')

  // Test that the response did not fail
  if (response.status() > 399) {
    throw new Error(`Failed with response code ${response.status()}`)
  }
})
 ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{< info >}}
Checkly currently supports only using **Chromium** with Playwright Test and Playwright library.
{{< /info >}}

## Breaking down a Browser check step-by-step

Let's look at a breakdown of a real-life scenario. The code below logs into Checkly, and waits for the dashboard to fully load.

{{< tabs "Breakdown example" >}}
{{< tab "JavaScript" >}}
```js
const { test } = require('@playwright/test') // 1

test('Login to Checkly', async ({ page }) => { // 2
  await page.goto('https://app.checklyhq.com/login') // 3

>   await page.locator('input[type="email"]').type('john@example.com') // 4

Reviewer 2: @miliberlin Same as below :)

  await page.locator('input[type="password"]').type('mypassword') // 5
  await page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Log In' }).click() // 5

  await page.getByTestId('home-dashboard-table').isVisible() // 6
})
 ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "TypeScript" >}}
```ts
import { test } from '@playwright/test' // 1

test('Login to Checkly', async ({ page }) => { // 2
  await page.goto('https://app.checklyhq.com/login') // 3

  await page.locator('input[type="email"]').type('john@example.com') // 4

>   await page.locator('input[type="password"]').type('mypassword') // 5

Author: @ragog Depends on whether we want to stay true to the actual code on our login screen. Email and password fields have no label or role. We could use `getByPlaceholder()`, but I find that less explanatory than using `page.locator()`

>   await page.locator('input[type="password"]').type('mypassword') // 5

Reviewer 2: I don't have a strong opinion on this. Maybe @stefanjudis can weight in?

  await page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Log In' }).click() // 5

  await page.getByTestId('home-dashboard-table').isVisible() // 6
})
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> **1. Initial declarations:** We first import a framework (Playwright Test Runner or Playwright) to control the browser.

Reviewer 2: @miliberlin To avoid confusion I would spell out the one we are calling out here - Playwright Test.

> **2. Establish environment:** We use the `page` fixture to create a page instance without having to initialise a browser and create a new page manually. See the documentation on [Fixtures](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-fixtures) to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**2. Establish environment:** We use the `page` fixture without having to initialise a browser and create a new page manually. See the documentation on [Fixtures](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-fixtures) to learn more.
```

**4. Fill out input fields and submit:** Using the `page.type()` method we enter our email address and
password. You would normally use environment variables here to keep sensitive data
out of your scripts. See [Login scenarios and secrets](/docs/browser-checks/login-and-secrets/) for more info.

**5. Click Login button:** We use Playwright's `getByRole()` locator to find the login button and also `.click()` on it right away.

**6. Wait for the dashboard:** The expected behaviour is that the dashboard loads. We assess this by checking whether the element with the test ID `home-dashboard-table` is visible. The `getByTestId()` method is looking for elements where the `data-testid` attribute matches the provided value.

> Playwright Test will automatically retry assertions until it succeeds or times out (default timeout is 5s). Moreover, when the test has finished, Playwright Test will automatically tear down the `page` fixture and clean up.

Reviewer: Playwright Test will automatically retry the assertion until it succeeds or times out (default timeout is 5s)

**6. Wait for the dashboard:** The expected behaviour is that the dashboard loads. We assess this by checking whether the element with the test ID `home-dashboard-table` is visible. The `getByTestId()` method is looking for elements where the `data-testid` attribute matches the provided value. Playwright Test will automatically tear down the `page` fixture after the test has finished.

## How do I create a Browser check?

> Every valid **[Playwright Test](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro)** or **[Playwright](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright)** script is a valid Browser check. You can create these scripts in two ways:

Reviewer 2: @miliberlin this is really a question: is it true _every_ valid script in those is valid on Checkly? This is a strong statement and I was under the impression there were certain configs etc that we didn't really support.

Reviewer 3: - As of now (i know it'll be fixed soon), PWT scripts that aren't requiring `@playwright/test` in the entry file, won't work and throw.

Also I could think of screenshot comparisons which are theoretically valid but won't work in Checkly.

Author: I rephrased this (see [last commit](https://github.com/checkly/checklyhq.com/pull/625/commits/f9fbe2e8a50ae4c91d1084af97c74115306a2065)) to make it less strong and add a link to the list of supported features. That list will probably be moved to the quickstart page once we get rid of the separate PWT page.

1. By using [Playwright Codegen](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen) to record a set of actions and generate the Playwright Test or Playwright script automatically.
2. By writing the Node.js by hand.

A combination of both is also very common, i.e. you record the basic interactions with Codegen and then tweak the generated code with extra things like passwords, extra wait conditions and content checks.

In both cases, you can always **run and debug the script on your local machine** and tweak it to perfection before uploading it to Checkly.

{{< info >}}

> Every valid Playwright Test or Playwright script is a valid Browser check. If the script passes, your check passes.

Reviewer 2: Same as above @miliberlin

While you can use plain Playwright to run your checks on Checkly, **we highly recommend using Playwright Test**. The test-runner gives you powerful additional features such as built-in awaiting for `expect()`, many web-first assertions, high-level locators, and traces and videos of your failed tests to easily debug your issues, [learn more about Playwright Test features](/docs/browser-checks/playwright-test/).

{{< info >}}
We have stopped support for Puppeeteer with runtime 2022.10. [Read more about our reasons](/docs/browser-checks/#what-about-puppeteer).
{{< /info >}}

The following code is a valid Browser check using Playwright Test.

{{< tabs "Basic example" >}}
{{< tab "JavaScript" >}}
 ```js
const { test } = require('@playwright/test')

test('Visit Checkly HQ page', async ({ page }) => {
  const response = await page.goto('https://checklyhq.com')

  // Test that the response did not fail
  if (response.status() > 399) {
    throw new Error(`Failed with response code ${response.status()}`)

>   }

Reviewer: let's change this to use expect

})
 ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "TypeScript" >}}
 ```ts
import { test } from '@playwright/test'

test('Visit Checkly HQ page', async ({ page }) => {
  const response = await page.goto('https://checklyhq.com')

  // Test that the response did not fail
  if (response.status() > 399) {
    throw new Error(`Failed with response code ${response.status()}`)
  }
})
 ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{< info >}}
Checkly currently supports only using **Chromium** with Playwright Test and Playwright library.
{{< /info >}}

## Breaking down a Browser check step-by-step

Let's look at a breakdown of a real-life scenario. The code below logs into Checkly, and waits for the dashboard to fully load.

{{< tabs "Breakdown example" >}}
{{< tab "JavaScript" >}}
```js
const { test } = require('@playwright/test') // 1

test('Login to Checkly', async ({ page }) => { // 2
  await page.goto('https://app.checklyhq.com/login') // 3

  await page.locator('input[type="email"]').type('john@example.com') // 4
  await page.locator('input[type="password"]').type('mypassword') // 4
  await page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Log In' }).click() // 5

>   await page.getByTestId('home-dashboard-table').isVisible() // 6

Reviewer: let's change it to use expect https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-locatorassertions#locator-assertions-to-be-visible

  await page.locator('input[type="email"]').type('john@example.com') // 4
  await page.locator('input[type="password"]').type('mypassword') // 4
  await page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Log In' }).click() // 5

  await page.getByTestId('home-dashboard-table').isVisible() // 6
})
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

**1. Initial declarations:** We first import the Playwright Test framework to control the browser.

**2. Establish environment:** We use the `page` fixture without having to initialise a browser and create a new page manually. See the documentation on [Fixtures](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-fixtures) to learn more.

**3. Initial navigation:** We use the `page.goto()` method to load the first page.

**4. Fill out input fields and submit:** Using the `page.type()` method we enter our email address and
password. You would normally use environment variables here to keep sensitive data
out of your scripts. See [Login scenarios and secrets](/docs/browser-checks/login-and-secrets/) for more info.

**5. Click Login button:** We use Playwright's `getByRole()` locator to find the login button and also `.click()` on it right away.

> **6. Wait for the dashboard:** The expected behaviour is that the dashboard loads. We assess this by checking whether the element with the test ID `home-dashboard-table` is visible. The `getByTestId()` method is looking for elements where the `data-testid` attribute matches the provided value. Playwright Test will automatically tear down the `page` fixture after the test has finished.

Reviewer: You can mention that PWT will automatically retry the assertion until it succeeds or times out (default timeout is 5s)

To power your Browser checks, Checkly uses the **[Playwright](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright)** library as well as **[Playwright Test](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro)**, a test-runner utilising Playwright to easily write idiomatic and reliable end-to-end tests. Use these frameworks to control the interactions you want to happen on a web page.

While you can use plain Playwright to run your checks on Checkly, **we highly recommend using Playwright Test**. The test-runner gives you powerful additional features such as built-in awaiting for `expect()`, many web-first assertions, high-level locators, and traces and videos of your failed tests to easily debug your issues. [Learn more](/docs/browser-checks/playwright-test/).

{{< info >}}
While Playwright and Puppeteer share many similarities, they have evolved at different speeds over the last two years. Playwright's rapid release cycle and new  features such as [auto-waiting](https://playwright.dev/docs/actionability) and [the built-in inspector](https://playwright.dev/docs/debug#playwright-inspector) made it gain momentum in the developer community.

> __We recommend using Playwright if you are just starting out or [migrating from Puppeteer to Playwright using `puppeteer-to-playwright`](https://github.com/checkly/puppeteer-to-playwright).__

Author: moved to the bottom

  await page.goto('https://checklyhq.com/')

  // CTA button locator
  const button = page.locator('#nav-signup-button')

  // Assert that the button has the correct text
  await expect(button).toHaveText('Start for free')
})
 ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "TypeScript" >}}
```ts
import { expect, test } from '@playwright/test'

test('CTA button has "Start for free" text', async ({ page }) => {
  await page.goto('https://checklyhq.com/')

  // CTA button locator
  const button = page.locator('#nav-signup-button')

  // Assert that the button has the correct text
  await expect(button).toHaveText('Start for free')
})
 ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Note that we are using Playwright Tests's built-in expect, which is enriched with a convenient [LocatorAssertions](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-locatorassertions) class. Methods of this class can be used to make assertions about `Locators` state. Here we use `toHaveText()` to check if the target element has `Start for free` text.

When an assertion fails, your check fails. Your check's result will show the log output for the error. Any configured
alerting channels will be triggered, notifying your team that something is up.

> ![failed PWT assertion](/docs/images/browser-checks/getting-started_pwt.gif)

Author: this should be updated again when the new PWT UI is live.

## What about Puppeteer?
While Playwright and Puppeteer share many similarities, they have evolved at different speeds over time. Playwright's rapid release cycle and new features such as [auto-waiting](https://playwright.dev/docs/actionability) and [the built-in inspector](https://playwright.dev/docs/debug#playwright-inspector) made it gain momentum in the developer community. Playwright and Playwright Test Runner have become superior solutions and we have stopped support for Puppeteer in newer [runtimes](/docs/runtimes/). The latest runtime that supports Puppeteer is [2022.02](/docs/runtimes/specs/).

We recommend using Playwright Test if you are just starting out or [migrating from Puppeteer to Playwright using `puppeteer-to-playwright`](https://github.com/checkly/puppeteer-to-playwright).

## Next Steps
- Learn more about [built-in functionalities of Playwright Test](/docs/browser-checks/playwright-test/).
- Learn how to deal with [login scenarios and private data](/docs/browser-checks/login-and-secrets/).
- Use [Playwright Codegen](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen) to record scripts without coding.

> - Learn more about [taking screenshots](/docs/browser-checks/screenshots/).

Reviewer 2: @miliberlin I wonder if we want to keep this going forward. This was created back when screenshots were not as straightforward with Puppeteer/Playwright and Checkly. Now they don't add much on top of PWT's own docs. Maybe we can reduce the entropy of the docs a bit by eliminating this in another PR? :)

Author: We are planning to merge that page into other pages as we go. As PWT becomes a core part of browser checks, it will be the default example everywhere - no need for a separate page then.

- Learn more about [creating reusable code snippets](/docs/browser-checks/partials-code-snippets/).
- Run checks behind an [HTTP proxy](/docs/private-locations/proxy).

> ## More Playwright resources

Reviewer 2: @miliberlin should we also link our Youtube channel? It is very Browser check / PWT focused right now so I think it would fit well.

![failed api monitoring assertion](/docs/images/browser-checks/failed_assertion.png)

## What about Puppeteer?

> While Playwright and Puppeteer share many similarities, they have evolved at different speeds over the last two years. Playwright's rapid release cycle and new features such as [auto-waiting](https://playwright.dev/docs/actionability) and [the built-in inspector](https://playwright.dev/docs/debug#playwright-inspector) made it gain momentum in the developer community. Playwright and Playwright Test Runner have become superior solutions and we have stopped support for Puppeteer. The last available runtime is [2022.02](/docs/runtimes/specs/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While Playwright and Puppeteer share many similarities, they have evolved at different speeds over time. Playwright's rapid release cycle and new features such as [auto-waiting](https://playwright.dev/docs/actionability) and [the built-in inspector](https://playwright.dev/docs/debug#playwright-inspector) made it gain momentum in the developer community. Playwright and Playwright Test Runner have become superior solutions and we have stopped support for Puppeteer. The last available runtime is [2022.02](/docs/runtimes/specs/).
```

Maybe we can avoid specific time ranges to not update it again soon. :)

## Next Steps
- Learn more about [built-in functionalities of Playwright Test](/docs/browser-checks/playwright-test/).
- Learn how to deal with [login scenarios and private data](/docs/browser-checks/login-and-secrets/).
- Use [Playwright Codegen](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen) to record scripts without coding.
- Learn more about [taking screenshots](/docs/browser-checks/screenshots/).
- Learn more about [creating reusable code snippets](/docs/browser-checks/partials-code-snippets/).
- Run checks behind an [HTTP proxy](/docs/private-locations/proxy).

## More Playwright and Puppeteer resources
## More Playwright resources

- [Headless Automation guides](/learn/headless), a free & open source knowledge base for Playwright and Puppeteer
(maintained by Checkly).
- [playwright.dev](https://playwright.dev/) is the official API documentation site for the Playwright framework.
- [awesome-playwright](https://github.com/mxschmitt/awesome-playwright) is a great GitHub repo full of
Playwright-related libraries, tips and resources.

> - [pptr.dev](https://pptr.dev/) is the official API documentation site for the Puppeteer framework.

Author: Will be moved to the new PPTR page
